Big data is a general term used to describe the voluminous amount of unstructred and semistructed data a company creates¡ªdata that would take too much time and cost too much money to load into a lational database for analysis. Although big data doesn¡¯t refer to any specific quantity, the term is often used when speaking about petabytes and exabytes of data.
A primary goal for looking at big data is to discover repeatable business patterns. It¡¯s generally accepted that unstructred data, most of which is located in text files, accounts for at least 80% of an organization¡¯s data. If left unmanaged, the sheer volume of unstructured data that¡¯s generatedeach year within an enterprise can be costly in terms of storage. Unmanaged data can also pose a liability if information cannot be located in the event of a computing audit or lawsuit.
Big data analytics is often associated with cloud computing because the analysis of large data sets in real-time requires a framework like MapReduce to distribute the work among tens, hundreds or even thousands of computers.
Big data analytics is the process of examining large amounts of data of a variety of types to uncover hidden patterns, unknown correlations and other useful information. Such information can provide competitive advantages over rival organizations and result in business benefits, such as more effective marketing and increased revenue.
The primary goal of big data analytics is to help companies make better business decisions by enabling data scientists and other users to analyse huge volumes of translation data as well as other data sources that may be left untapped by conventional business intelligence(BI) programs. These other data sources may include Web server logs and Internet clickstream data, social media activity reports, mobile-phone call detail records and information captures by sensors. Some people exclusively associate big data and big data analytics with unstructred data of that sort, but consulting firms like Garther Inc. and Forrester Research Inc. also consider translations and other structured data to be valid forms of big data.
Big data analytics can be done with the software tools commonly used as part of advanced analytics disciplines such as predictive analytics and data warehouses.Furthermore, traditional data warehouses may not be able to handle the processing demands posed by big data.As a result, a new class of big data techology has emerged and is being used in many big data analytics environments. The techologies form the core of an open source software framework that supports the processing of large data sets across clustered systems.
Potential pitfalls that can trip up organizations on big data analytics initiatives include a lack of internal analytics skills and the high cost of hiring experienced analytics professionals, plus challenges in integrating Hadoop systems and data warehouses, although vendors are starting to offer software connectors between those technologies.
Big data management is the organization, administration and governance of large volumes of both structured and unstructured data.
The goal of big data management is to ensure a high level of data quality and accessibility for business intelligence and big data analytics applications.Corporations, government agencies and other organizatoins employ big data management strategies to help them contend with fast-growing pools of data,typically involving many terabytes or even petabytes of information saved in a variety of file formats. Effective big data management helps companies locate valuable information in large sets of unstructured data and semi-structured data from a variety of sources, including call detail records, system logs and social media sites.
Most big data environments go beyond relational databases and tradtional data warehouses platforms to incorporate techologies that are suited to processing and storing nontransactional forms of data. The increasing focus on collecting and analyzing big data is shaping new platforms that combine the traditional data warehouses with big data systems in a logical data warehousing architecture. As part of the process, they must decide what data must be kept for compliance reasons, what data can be disposed of and what data should be kept and analyzed in order to improve current business process or provide a business with a competitive advantage. The process requires careful data classification so that ultimately, smaller sets of data can be analyzed quickly and productively.
Big data as a service (BdaaS) is the delivery of statistical analysis tools or information by an outside provider that helps organizations understand and use insights gained from large information sets in order to gain a competitive advantage.
Given the immense amount of unstructured data generated on a regular basis, BdaaS is intended to free up organization resources by taking advantage of the predictive analytics skills of an outside provider to manage and assess large data sets, rather than hiring in-house staff for those functions. It can take the form of software that assists with data processing or a contract for the services of a team of data sctentists.
BdaaS is a form of manages services, similar to Software as a Service or Infratructure as a Service.It often relies upon cloud storage to preserve continual data access for the organization that owns the information as well as the provider working with it.
Unstructured data is a generic label for describing any corporate information that is not in a database. Unstructured data can be textual or non-textual. Textual unstructured data is generated in media like E-mail messages, PowerPoint presentation, Word documents, collaboration software and instant messages. Non-textual unstructured data is generated in media like JPEG images, MP3 audio files and Flash video files.
The information contained in unstructured data is not always easy to locate. It requires that data in both electronic and hard copy documents and other media be scanned so a search application can parse out concepts based on words used in specific contexts.This is called semantic search.It is also referred to as enterprise search.
In custom-facing business, the information contained in unstructured data can be analyzed to improve customer relationship management and relationship marketing. As social media application like Twitter and Facebook go mainstream, the growth of unstructured data is expected to far outplace the growth of structured data.
Generally ,data mining (sometimes called data or knoeledge discovery) is the process of analyzing data from different perspectives and summarizing it into useful information¡ªinformation that can be used to increase revenue, cut costs, or both. Data mining software is one of a number of analytical tools for analytical tools for analyzing data. It allows users to analyze data from many different dimensionsor angels, categorizes it, and summarize the relationships identified. Technically, data mining is the process of finding correlations or patterns among dozens of fields in large relational databases.
Data mining parameters include:
Association¡ªlooking for patterns where one event is connected to another event.
Sequence or path analysis¡ªlooking for patterns where one event leads to another later event.
Classification¡ªlooking for new patterns(may result in a charge in the way the data is organized but that¡¯s OK).
Clustering¡ªfinding and visually documenting groups of facts not previously known.
Forecasting¡ªdiscovering patterns in data that can lead to reasonable predictions about the future(This area of mining is known as predictive analytics).
Data mining techniques are used in many reaearch areas, including mathematics, cybernetics, genetics and marketing. Web mining, a type of data mining used in customer relationship management(CRM), takes advaneage of the huge amount of information gathered by a Web site to look for patterns in user behavior.
A data warehouse is a central repository for all or significiant parts of the data that an enterpeise¡¯s various business systems collect. The term was coined by W.H.Inmon. IBM sometimes uses the term ¡°information warehouse¡±.
Typically, a data warehouse is housed on an enterprise mainframe server. Data from various online transaction processing(OLTP) application and other sources is selectively extracted and organized on the data warehouse database for the use by analytical applications and user queries.Data warehousing emphasizes the capture of data from diverse sources for useful analysis and access, but does not generally start from the point-of-view of the end user or knowledge worker who may need access to speciallized, sometimes local databases. The latter idea is known as the data mart.
Application of data warehouses include data mining, Web Mining and decision support systems(DSS).

IIIIIIIIIIIIII